.. _2024-name:

!!!!
2024
!!!!

.. meta::
   :keywords: 2024, xrst, release, notes, 2024

.. index:: 2024, xrst, release, notes, 2024

.. _2024-title:

xrst Release Notes for 2024
###########################

.. contents::
   :local:

.. meta::
   :keywords: mm-dd

.. index:: mm-dd

.. _2024@mm-dd:

mm-dd
*****

.. _2024@mm-dd@03-01:

03-01
=====
The :ref:`user-guide@Install From Source` instructions were improved.

.. _2024@mm-dd@02-29:

02-29
=====
The name of the xrst search page was changed from ``Search``
to :ref:`xrst_search-name` and its link was moved to directly below
the sphinx Search link.
This distinguishes it from the search that comes with sphinx.
The xrst search page was displaying the number of matches displayed,
which is at most 100, instead of the total number of matches.
This has been fixed.
In addition, you can now link to the xrst search using either::

   :ref:`xrst_search-name`
   :ref:`xrst_search-tilte`

.. _2024@mm-dd@02-25:

02-25
=====
A discussion was added for the case where the file list is
:ref:`toc_cmd@File List@Empty` in a toc command.
In addition, the error message was improved for the case
where this list is empty and the page is not a parent page.

.. _2024@mm-dd@02-14:

02-14
=====
If xrst could not translate an error message from its rst line number
to its original input file, a non-zero error flag was set and
just a newline printed to stderr.
This has been fixed and a more meaningful error message is printed
before the program exists.

.. _2024@mm-dd@02-03:

02-03
=====
Adapt pytest/test_rst.py so the tests work on windows and extend
tox.ini so that versions from 3.8 to 3.12 are tested.

.. _2024@mm-dd@01-29:

01-29
=====
Add the :ref:`run_xrst@ignore_spell_commands` option to the
``xrst`` command line.

.. _2024@mm-dd@01-21:

01-21
=====
#. If you used ``docstring_example`` for a :ref:`begin_cmd@page_name`
   and there was a spelling error in that page,
   ``xrst`` would stop at a breakpoint before reporting the spelling error.
   This has been fixed.
#. It was possible for the assert below to fail.
   This has been changed into an error message::

      assert page_name == 'xrst_table_of_contents'

#. The information and suggestions printed below the spelling warnings
   has been improved.

.. _2024@mm-dd@01-04:

01-04
=====
A link to the current release was included; see
:ref:`user-guide@Versions` .

.. _2024@mm-dd@01-01:

01-01
=====

#. The :ref:`get_started-name` example was simplified by using
   the stable release for 2024.

#. A stable version of the documentation was created; see
   :ref:`user-guide@Versions` .

#. Each *file_name* in the latest documentation was moved
   (this is important if you have links to previous web pages):

   .. list-table::

      *  - Old Location
         - ``https://xrst.readthedocs.io/``\ *file_name*
      *  - New Location
         - ``https://xrst.readthedocs.io/latest/``\ *file_name*
